---
permalink: /RIPE-Database-Structure/Database-Object
lastUpdated: 1743494265000
prev:
  text: Personal Data Database Management and Reponsabilities
  link: >-
    /What-is-the-RIPE-Database/Personal-Data-Database-Management-and-Reponsabilities/
next:
  text: Primary and Secondary Objects
  link: /RIPE-Database-Structure/Primary-and-Secondary-Objects/
---

# Database Objects

The RIPE Database contains records of:

* Allocations and assignments of IP address space (the IP address registry or INR);
* Reverse domain registrations;
* Routing policy information (the Internet Routing Registry or IRR);
* Contact information (details of people who are registered as contacts for the Internet resources used in the operation of networks or routers, and their organisations).

The records in the RIPE Database are known as ‘objects'. Routing Policy Specification Language (RPSL) defines the basic syntax of database objects. For further information see [RFC 2622](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2622). But, over the years, practical operations have resulted in a number of deviations from the basic RPSL definition. Many extensions have also been made to the RIPE implementation of RPSL for the RIPE Database. Some features of RPSL were never implemented and others have been removed as requirements changed. For engineering-minded people, these database objects (records) should not be confused with the objects used in object-orientated programming languages that are used to write the software.

There are many types of objects in the database. These are described in the section: ['RPSL Object Types'](../RPSL-Object-Types/#rpsl-object-types). Objects contain a piece of information relating to an Internet resource or a supporting or administrative function. Objects can reference other objects and these references must be followed to obtain the full description of an Internet resource. Inheritance is not used, which means that some references must be duplicated across large numbers of objects.
