---
permalink: /Appendices/Appendix-F--Special-Considerations-for-Object-Types
lastUpdated: 1743427745000
prev:
  text: Appendix E  Domain Object Creation Flowchart
  link: /Appendices/Appendix-E--Domain-Object-Creation-Flowchart/
next:
  text: Appendix G  Object Types with Personal Data
  link: /Appendices/Appendix-G--Object-Types-with-Personal-Data/
---

# Appendix F- Special Considerations for Object Types

This is a list of actions required of the Maintainer in a situation where one of the following object types references 
the **person** object to be removed and:
* This is the only **person** or **role** object referenced in the object.
* There are no options available for changing the reference.

<br/>

**Forward domain** <br/>
This is a Top-Level Domain (TLD) problem. If the TLD is not responsive, the TLD should remove its data from the RIPE Database.

**Reverse domain** <br/>
These objects should be deleted and removed from the DNS system.

**inet(6)num** <br/>
The address space must be returned to the appropriate Internet Registry and then the object can be deleted.

The RIPE NCC will take no action until the Data Subject has cancelled any routing arrangements for the address space to 
be returned and any related **route(6)** objects have been deleted.

**aut-num** <br/>
These objects should be deleted.

The RIPE NCC will take no action until the Data Subject has cancelled any routing arrangements
where this AS number is the origin and any related **route(6)** objects have been deleted.

**role** <br/>
If the role object only references this one **person** object, find all the references to the **role** object and 
consider them as if they were direct references to the **person** object.

**mntner** <br/>
Find all objects that reference this **mntner** object and carry out the following actions on each of these objects:

* Where there are references to more than one **mntner** object in the same attribute type, remove the reference to 
  this **mntner** object.
* If it is referenced in an optional attribute, remove the attribute.
* Where an object references only this **mntner** object in a single instance of a mandatory
  attribute, consider this object as if it had a single reference to the **person** object to be deleted. This object 
  may also need to be deleted and then follow the chain of references to this object and handle all referencing objects 
  according to this list.

When all references to the **mntner** object have been removed, delete the **mntner** object.

**key-cert** <br/>
References to **person** objects are optional, so remove any reference to this **person** object from the **key-cert** 
object.

**irt** <br/>
Remove references to this **irt** object from **inet(6)num** objects, then delete the **irt** object.

**organisation** <br/>
References to **person** objects are optional, so remove any reference to this **person** object from the 
**organisation** object.
