---
permalink: /How-to-Query-the-RIPE-Database
lastUpdated: 1743598693000
prev:
  text: Request DNSSEC delegation
  link: /Authorisation/Request-DNSSEC-delegation/
next:
  text: The Structure of a Query
  link: /How-to-Query-the-RIPE-Database/The-Structure-of-a-Query/
---

# How to Query the RIPE Database

Querying the RIPE Database is the process of reading information from the database. Historically, this was done from the command line using a whois client. Now, there are a number of ways to query the RIPE Database.

We describe the general format of a query and the query flags that you can use to change the default behaviour of a query.

We also describe how the database server automatically tracks query responses and limits how much contact information you can take from the RIPE Database. We do this to 
reduce the chance that someone will use the database to send spam e-mails to addresses that they find.

Following [Acceptable use policy](https://www.ripe.net/manage-ips-and-asns/db/support/documentation/ripe-database-acceptable-use-policy/), we strive to detect
potential attacks. If a DoS attack is detected, we temporarily block the user's IP address. 

[The RIPE Database Terms and Conditions](https://www.ripe.net/manage-ips-and-asns/db/support/documentation/ripe-database-acceptable-use-policy/)
allow the RIPE NCC to block or suspend access to the RIPE Database services for any suspected abuse. Users exhibiting
suspected abusive behavior may be permanently blocked from the system. If a user is permanently blocked, they will receive a notification
informing them of the block whenever they attempt to make a query.

If you wish to be unblocked, please contact the RIPE Database administration team [ripe-dbm@ripe.net](mailto:ripe-dbm@ripe.net) to discuss further.
