---
permalink: /How-to-Query-the-RIPE-Database/The-Structure-of-a-Query
lastUpdated: 1743413483000
prev:
  text: README
  link: /Authorisation/README/
next:
  text: Web Query Form
  link: /How-to-Query-the-RIPE-Database/Web-Query-Form/
---

# The Structure of a Query

The general format of a query is:

    [optional query flag [optional query flag argument]] <query argument> 
The query flags may be before or after the query argument.

Many query flags have a short and long format. The short format is:

    -short_query_flag [optional query flag argument]

    for example,  -B dw-ripe
The long format is:

    --long_query_flag [optional query flag argument]

    for example, --no-filtering dw-ripe
When a query includes many query flags, the short and long format options may be mixed. You may list each query flag separately, for example:

    -B –i tech-c --no-grouping DW-RIPE
You can also group short query flags together. The long query flags must always be separated. When short flags are grouped, only the last flag in a group may have a flag argument, as in:

    -Bi TECH-c --no-grouping dw-RIPE
The query argument is not case-sensitive. As shown in the examples above, it can be in upper case, lower case or a mixed case. Query flags are case-sensitive. This applies to both short- and long-format flags. However, the arguments to the query flags are not case-sensitive. There can be an optional space between a query flag and its argument. However, if the query flag argument is a list, there can be no spaces between elements of the list.

    -rBG –Tinetnum,inet6num –imb ripe-ncc-hm-mnt

    -rBG –T inetnum,inet6num –i MB ripe-ncc-hm-mnt
A list of query flags and query flag arguments are [available](../Tables-of-Query-Types-Supported-by-the-RIPE-Database/#tables-of-query-types-supported-by-the-ripe-database).

If you type an IP range you will get an exact match IP range if it exists. Otherwise smallest IP range containing it. (**inetnum/inet6num** and **route/route6** objects).

If you type a single IP address you will get the smallest IP range containing this IP address. (**inetnum/inet6num** and **route/route6** objects).
