---
permalink: /RPSL-Object-Types/Descriptions-of-Secondary-Objects
lastUpdated: 1743494265000
prev:
  text: Descriptions of Primary Objects
  link: /RPSL-Object-Types/Descriptions-of-Primary-Objects/
next:
  text: README
  link: /RPSL-Object-Types/README/
---

# Descriptions of Secondary Objects

* [Description of the AS-BLOCK Object](#description-of-the-as-block-object)
* [Description of the IRT Object](#description-of-the-irt-object)
* [Description of the KEY-CERT Object](#description-of-the-key-cert-object)
* [Description of the MNTNER Object](#description-of-the-mntner-object)
* [Description of the ORGANISATION Object](#description-of-the-organisation-object)
* [Description of the PERSON Object](#description-of-the-person-object)
* [Description of the POEM Object](#description-of-the-poem-object)
* [Description of the POETIC-FORM Object](#description-of-the-poetic-form-object)
* [Description of the ROLE Object](#description-of-the-role-object)



## Description of the AS-BLOCK Object

Below is the object template for the **as-block** object. It lists all possible attributes that are allowed in this object type.

    Attribute Name  Presence   Repeat     Indexed
    as-block:       mandatory  single     primary/lookup
    descr:          optional   multiple  
    remarks:        optional   multiple  
    org:            optional   multiple   inverse
    notify:         optional   multiple   inverse
    mnt-lower:      optional   multiple   inverse
    mnt-by:         mandatory  multiple   inverse
    created:        generated  single
    last-modified:  generated  single
    source:         mandatory  single  

An **as-block** object delegates a range of AS Numbers to a given RIR. Only the RIPE Database Administrators can create **as-block** objects. The set of **as-block** objects covers the full range of 16-bit and 32-bit AS Numbers. These objects prevent anyone other than the RIPE Database administrators from creating **aut-num** objects in the RIPE Database for AS Numbers that are administered by the RIPE NCC. The authorisation is set up so that anyone can create **aut-num** objects in the RIPE Database as copies of AS Numbers administered by other RIRs.

The primary key value will be in this format:

‘ASn - ASm' where n and m is a 32-bit unsigned, numbers in the range 0: 4,294,967,295. The values of n and m can be the same representing a block of one AS Number.

Leading zeroes (AS1 - AS065536) are not allowed and will be removed (AS1 - AS65536) by the database software.

**Description of Attributes Specific to the AS-BLOCK Object**


* **"as-block:"** – the range of AS Numbers covered by this block.
* **"descr:"** - A short description related to the object.
* **"mnt-lower:"** – This attribute controls who is able to create **aut-num** objects in the RIPE Database for the range of AS Numbers covered by this **as-block** object. See the section ['Authorisation'](../Authorisation/#authorisation) for more information.



## Description of the IRT Object

Below is the object template for the **irt** object. It lists all possible attributes that are allowed in this object type.

    Attribute Name   Presence   Repeat     Indexed
    irt:            mandatory  single     primary/lookup key
    address:        mandatory  multiple  
    phone:          optional   multiple  
    fax-no:         optional   multiple  
    e-mail:         mandatory  multiple   lookup key
    signature:      optional   multiple  
    encryption:     optional   multiple  
    org:            optional   multiple   inverse key
    admin-c:        mandatory  multiple   inverse key
    tech-c:         mandatory  multiple   inverse key
    auth:           mandatory  multiple   inverse key
    remarks:        optional   multiple  
    irt-nfy:        optional   multiple   inverse key
    notify:         optional   multiple   inverse key
    mnt-by:         mandatory  multiple   inverse key
    mnt-ref:        optional   multiple   inverse key
    created:        generated  single
    last-modified:  generated  single
    source:         mandatory  single   

The **irt** object was introduced to represent a Computer Security Incident Response Team (CSIRT). This object includes security information for use by CSIRT teams as they communicate with each other.

The **irt** object may only be referenced from **inetnum** and **inet6num** objects to show which CSIRT is responsible for handling computer and network incidents for that address range. Use is made of the hierarchical nature of address space. Any reference in an **inet(6)num** object to an **irt** object applies not only to the referencing object but also to all more specific address space. So the more specific objects inherit the reference to the **irt** object. When querying address space for an **irt** reference, the query software takes account of this inheritance and queries up the hierarchy looking for the nearest applicable **irt** object reference. This information is returned when any more specific **inet(6)num** object is queried. Where **irt** references are made at multiple points in an address space hierarchy, the closest less specific reference applies.

Adding a reference to an **irt** object requires authorisation from the maintainer of the **irt** object. This is handled using the "auth:" attribute of the **irt** object. Although the reference to an **irt** object from an **inet(6)num** object is made using the "mnt-irt:" attribute, it should be clear that the **irt** object is not a **mntner** object. The **irt** object contains contact information and is more similar to a **role** object than a **mntner** object.

The contact details provided by an **irt** object must be business information and must not contain any personal information.

**Description of Attributes Specific to the IRT Object**


* **"irt:"** – This attribute is a single word name for the response team starting with ‘IRT-‘.
* **"address:"** - This is a full postal address for the business contact represented by this **irt** object.
* **"phone:"** – This is a phone number for the business contact represented by this **irt** object. It specifies a telephone number in international format. It must start with a '+' followed by the international country code, area code and number, optionally followed by an extension number.
* **"fax-no:"** - This is a fax number for the business contact represented by this **irt** object.
* **"e-mail:"** – This is an email address of a business role, organisation or CSIRT team represented by this **irt** object.
* **"signature:"** – This attribute references a **key-cert** object in the RIPE Database representing a public key used by the CSIRT team to sign their correspondence.
* **"encryption:"** – This attribute references a **key-cert** object in the RIPE Database representing a public key used to encrypt correspondence sent to the CSIRT team.
* **"auth:"** – This attribute defines the authentication scheme to be used to authorise the addition of a reference to this **irt** object. It has the same authentication options as described in the the sub-section ['Description of the mntner Object'](#description-of-the-mntner-object).
* **"irt-nfy:"** – This attribute specifies a business email address to be notified when a reference to this **irt** object is added or removed.
* **"mnt-ref:"** – This attribute references **mntner** objects that provide a set of authorisation tokens used for creating references to this **irt** object in any other object.



## Description of the KEY-CERT Object

Below is the object template for the **key-cert** object. It lists all possible attributes that are allowed in this object type.

    Attribute Name  Presence   Repeat     Indexed
    key-cert:       mandatory  single     primary/lookup key
    method:         generated  single    
    owner:          generated  multiple  
    fingerpr:       generated  single     inverse key
    certif:         mandatory  multiple  
    org:            optional   multiple   inverse key
    remarks:        optional   multiple  
    notify:         optional   multiple   inverse key
    admin-c:        optional   multiple   inverse key
    tech-c:         optional   multiple   inverse key
    mnt-by:         mandatory  multiple   inverse key
    created:        generated  single
    last-modified:  generated  single
    source:         mandatory  single    

A **key-cert** object holds a public key certificate, available by querying the RIPE Database. Anyone who needs to use authorisation in the RIPE Database and who has a private key can store their public key in a **key-cert** object. It is used with the **mntner** and **irt** objects. You cannot create a public/private key pair using the RIPE Database software. You must use some external software to create your keys and then copy the certificate data into the **key-cert** object.

Currently, the RIPE Database supports two types of keys, PGP and X.509.

The PGP certificate can be used to authorise updates to the RIPE Database and for signing and encrypting correspondence with a CSIRT using an **irt** object (see the sub-sections ['Description of the irt Object'](#description-of-the-irt-object) and [‘Description of the mntner Object'](#description-of-the-mntner-object) for more details). The "key-cert:" attribute takes the format ‘PGP-nnnnnnnn' where the key-id nnnnnnnn is a hexadecimal number. These keys are compliant with the Open PGP Message Format. PGP keys using an Elliptic Curve algorithm are not currently supported (e.g. Curve 25519, NIST, SECG, ECC Brainpool etc.).

The X.509 certificate can be used to sign and encrypt correspondence with a CSIRT using an **irt** object. It may work in some circumstances for authorising updates to the RIPE Database but we cannot guarantee this. The "key-cert:" attribute takes the format ‘X509-nnn' where key-id nnn is an integer number starting with 1. 
If you want to create an X.509 **key-cert** object you must follow this [appendix](../Appendices/Appendix-I--Client-Certificate-Authentication/#appendix-i-client-certificate-authentication).

The "method:", "owner:" and "fingerpr:" attributes are all generated by the software. It is not necessary to include these attributes when you create or modify one of these objects. If any of them are supplied, the software will check the values. If the value is wrong for any reason, the software will replace the supplied values with generated values. In this case, a warning will be returned to the user.

In case of performing REST updates using this authentication method [Client Certificate Authentication](../Update-Methods/RESTful-API/#client-certificate-authentication) API needs to be used. 

**Description of Attributes Specific to the KEY-CERT Object**


* **"key-cert:"** – This attribute specifies the key-id. This is used in "auth:" attributes of the mntner and irt objects.
* **"method:"** – This attribute defines the type of the public key. Currently, only PGP and X509 are supported.
* **"owner:"** – This attribute specifies the owner of the public key. This information must be supplied when you create the key. The RIPE Database software extracts this information from the key data when the **key-cert** object is created.
* **"fingerpr:"** – This attribute is an identifier of the public key. The RIPE Database software extracts this information from the key data when the **key-cert** object is created.
* **"certif:"** – The value of the public key should be supplied either using multiple "certif:" attributes, or in one "certif:" attribute. In the first case, this is easily done by exporting the key from your local key ring in ASCII-armored format and adding the string "certif:" to the start of each line of the key. In the second case, line continuation should be used to represent an ASCII-armored format of the key. All the lines of the exported key must be included, not forgetting the begin and end markers and the empty line that separates the header from the key body.



## Description of the MNTNER Object

Below is the object template for the **mntner** object. It lists all possible attributes that are allowed in this object type.

    Attribute Name  Presence   Repeat     Indexed
    mntner:         mandatory  single     primary/lookup key
    descr:          optional   multiple  
    org:            optional   multiple   inverse key
    admin-c:        mandatory  multiple   inverse key
    tech-c:         optional   multiple   inverse key
    upd-to:         mandatory  multiple   inverse key
    mnt-nfy:        optional   multiple   inverse key
    auth:           mandatory  multiple   inverse key
    remarks:        optional   multiple  
    notify:         optional   multiple   inverse key
    mnt-by:         mandatory  multiple   inverse key
    mnt-ref:        optional   multiple   inverse key 
    created:        generated  single
    last-modified:  generated  single
    source:         mandatory  single  

Objects in the RIPE Database are protected using **mntner** objects. A **mntner** object is an anonymous box containing the credentials needed to authorise creation, deletion or modification of any objects that it protects by whomever maintains this data. Currently, these credentials are MD5 passwords or PGP keys or Single Sign-On user names from the RIPE NCC Access system. The syntax also allows for X.509 certificates, but these are not fully implemented throughout the whois software.

Objects are protected by a **mntner**, if they contain a reference to the **mntner** in the object. This is done by including a "mnt-by:" attribute. Other "mnt-xxx:" attributes offer hierarchical protection. The "mnt-by:" attribute is mandatory in all object types.

A **mntner** object can be referenced either as a single mntner or comma-separated list of **mntners**.

Most users set the "mnt-by:" value in a **mntner** to reference itself. That makes it maintain itself. But this is not always the case. There are situations where someone wants to control who maintains a set of objects. This can be done by using mnt-a to maintain mnt-b. The object mnt-b contains the credentials to maintain a set of data. These credentials are set up by mnt-a.

To update an object protected by a **mntner** the authorisation must be passed from one of the "auth:" values in the **mntner** object referenced in one of the "mnt-by:" attributes of the updated object. This means that the correct credential for one of the "auth:" values must be supplied as part of the update. If an object references more than one **mntner** in the "mnt-by:" attributes, they act as a logical 'OR'. If the authorisation is passed by any "auth:" value from any of the referenced **mntner* objects, then the update will be authorised.

The "mnt-lower:", "mnt-routes:" and "mnt-domains:" attributes all provide for hierarchical authorisation. These also work in a logical 'OR' when multiple values are included in an object. How they are used is described in the object descriptions where these attributes are valid.

For more detailed information about using mntner attributes, see the section [‘Authorisation'](../Authorisation/#authorisation).

**Description of Attributes Specific to the MNTNER Object**


* **"mntner:"** – This attribute specifies the name of the **mntner** object. It should end in ‘-mnt', but the software has never enforced this.
* **"descr:"** – A short description related to the object.
* **"upd-to:"** – This attribute specifies an email address where a notification will be sent when an attempt to update an object protected by this **mntner** is unsuccessful due to authorisation failure. If there are multiple attributes, all specified email addresses will receive a direct email to that address.
* **"mnt-nfy:"** – This attribute specifies the email address where a notification will be sent when an object protected by this **mntner** is successfully updated. If there are multiple attributes, all specified email addresses will receive a direct email to that address.
* **"mnt-ref:"** – This attribute references **mntner** objects that provide a set of authorisation tokens used for creating references to this **mntner** object in any other object.
* **"auth:"** – This attribute defines an authentication scheme to be used. Any of the current authentication schemes used by the RIPE Database are allowed.



## Description of the ORGANISATION Object

Below is the object template for the **organisation** object. It lists all possible attributes that are allowed in this object type.

    Attribute Name    Presence   Repeat     Indexed
    organisation:     mandatory  single     primary/lookup key
    org-name:         mandatory  single     lookup key
    org-type:         mandatory  single    
    descr:            optional   multiple  
    remarks:          optional   multiple  
    address:          mandatory  multiple 
    country:          optional   single 
    phone:            optional   multiple  
    fax-no:           optional   multiple  
    e-mail:           mandatory  multiple   lookup key
    geoloc:           optional   single    
    language:         optional   multiple  
    org:              optional   multiple   inverse key
    admin-c:          optional   multiple   inverse key
    tech-c:           optional   multiple   inverse key
    abuse-c:          optional   single     inverse key
    ref-nfy:          optional   multiple   inverse key
    mnt-ref:          mandatory  multiple   inverse key
    notify:           optional   multiple   inverse key
    mnt-by:           mandatory  multiple   inverse key
    created:          generated  single
    last-modified:    generated  single
    source:           mandatory  single   

The **organisation** object provides information about an organisation that has registered an Internet resource in the RIPE Database. This may be a company, non-profit group or individual. It was introduced as a means to link together all of the human and Internet resources related to one organisation.

This object is the central starting point for managing data in the RIPE Database. All your other objects are related to this object. If you manage any aspect of any resource then you should have an **organisation** object so that other people know who you are, what you maintain and how to contact you.

The **organisation** object should only contain business information. Even if the organisation is an individual, it should not include any personal information.

Adding references to an **organisation** object requires authorisation from the organisation. Removing them does not need any authorisation. The maintainer of the **organisation** object can choose to be notified when any reference is added or removed.

This object is created for new members by the RIPE NCC with "org-type: LIR". These objects are required to include an "abuse-c:" attribute referencing an abuse contact object.

The member **organisation** objects are partly managed by the RIPE NCC and partly by the member. Because of this joint management, with the RIPE NCC **mntner** as the "mnt-by:", these objects are locked out of normal updates by members. The parts that the member can change can only be edited in the [LIR Portal](https://lirportal.ripe.net/) Object Editors.

**Description of Attributes Specific to the ORGANISATION Object**


* **"organisation:"** – This attribute specifies the ID of an **organisation** object. When creating an object, you must specify an "AUTO" ID by setting the value of the attribute to "AUTO-1" or "AUTO-1&lt;letterCombination&gt;" ,so the database will assign the ID automatically. The ID will always start with the string ‘ORG-‘ prefix, followed by 2 to 4 letters, digits, a dash and the database source. If deleted, it is not possible to recreate an **organisation** object with the same ID.
* **“org-name:”** – This attribute specifies the name of the organisation that this **organisation** object represents in the RIPE Database.
* **“org-type:”** – This attribute specifies the type of the organisation. It takes one of the following fixed values. Uses can only create organisation objects with the type ‘OTHER'. The rest of the values can only be set by the RIPE NCC.
    * 'IANA' – Only used for Internet Assigned Numbers Authority
    * 'RIR' – Only used for the five Regional Internet Registries
    * 'NIR' – This is for National Internet Registries (there are no NIRs in the RIPE NCC service region, but it is used by APNIC)
    * 'LIR' – This represents all the Local Internet Registries (the RIPE NCC members)
    * 'WHITEPAGES' – A little-used historical idea for people who have a ‘significant' presence in the industry but who don't manage any resources in the RIPE Database.
    * 'DIRECT_ASSIGNMENT' – Used for organisations who have a direct contract with RIPE NCC
    * 'OTHER' – This represents all organisations that do not fit any of the above categories.
* **“descr:”** – A short description related to the object.
* **"country:"** - This is the country for the organisation. Can only be added, modified or removed by the RIPE NCC if the organisation is referenced from RIPE NCC (jointly) maintained resources.
* **“phone:”** – This is a phone number for the business contact represented by this **organisation** object. It specifies a telephone number in international shorthand. It must start with a '+' followed by the international country code, area code and number, optionally followed by an extension number.
* **“fax-no:”** – This is a fax number for the business contact represented by this **organisation** object.
* **“e-mail:”** – This is a business email address for the organisation represented by this object.
* **“geoloc:”** – The geolocation coordinates for the resource in decimal degrees notation. Format is latitude followed by longitude, separated by a space. Latitude ranges from [-90,+90] and longitude from [-180,+180].
* **“language:”** – Identifies the language as a two-letter code from the ISO 639-1 language code list.
* **“abuse-c:”** – This attribute references an abuse contact object. This can only be a **role** object that contains an "abuse-mailbox:" attribute. Making this reference will remove any query limits for that **role** object, which must only include business data (no personal information).
* **“ref-nfy:”** – This attribute specifies an email address where a notification will be sent when a reference to an **organisation** object is added or removed. If there are multiple attributes, all specified email addresses will receive a direct email to that address.
* **“mnt-ref:”** – This attribute references **mntner** objects that provide a set of authorisation tokens used for creating references to this **organisation** object in any other object.
* **“address:”** – This is a full postal address for the business contact represented by this **organisation** object.



## Description of the PERSON Object

Below is the object template for the **person** object. It lists all possible attributes that are allowed in this object type.

    Attribute Name    Presence   Repeat     Indexed 
    person:           mandatory  single     lookup key
    address:          mandatory  multiple  
    phone:            mandatory  multiple  
    fax-no:           optional   multiple  
    e-mail:           optional   multiple   lookup key
    org:              optional   multiple   inverse key
    nic-hdl:          mandatory  single     primary/lookup key
    remarks:          optional   multiple  
    notify:           optional   multiple   inverse key
    mnt-by:           mandatory  multiple   inverse key
    mnt-ref:          optional   multiple   inverse key
    created:          generated  single
    last-modified:    generated  single
    source:           mandatory  single  

The **person** object provides information about a real person. The original intention was that this should only be used for contacts responsible for technical or administrative issues relating to Internet resources registered in the RIPE Database. However, the business model used by many resource holders is to also document End User customers who have been assigned a resource. One of its purposes is defined as a contact database for people who manage resources. It is not easy to distinguish between customers and contacts from the **person** object, unless it is documented in "remarks:". The **person** object is the only object in the RIPE Database that should contain any personal information. The "person:" attribute is not the primary key of this object, even though it is the first attribute. The name in the "person:" attribute can be changed by the user.

The **person** and **role** objects are the only objects where the first attribute is not (even part of) the primary key of the database object. For these objects the primary key is the "nic-hdl:" attribute. Both these objects ‘share' the use of the primary key. So it is not possible to have a **person** object with the same “nic-hdl:” value as a **role** object. The two objects have become almost interchangeable and in most situations either can be used. But it is not possible to convert one into the other. It is not possible to determine if an object is a **person** or **role** object from the “nic-hdl:”.

If a **person** object is deleted, it is not possible to recreate it with the same NIC Handle. This rule was only introduced in 2009. Before that date, the NIC Handles could be re-used. Some caution should be exercised when looking at the history of objects that reference NIC Handles. A **person** or **role** object in the database that currently has that NIC handle may not be the same person or contact as the one using this NIC Handle in the historical reference.

**Description of Attributes Specific to the PERSON Object**


* **"person:"** – This attribute specifies the full name of the contact person. It must have at least two words in the name.
* **“address:”** – This is a full postal address for the contact represented by this object.
* **“phone:”** – This is a phone number for the contact represented by this object. It specifies a telephone number in international format. It must start with a '+' followed by the international country code, area code and number., optionally followed by an extension number.
* **“fax-no:”** – This is a fax number for the contact represented by this object.
* **“e-mail:”** – This is an email address for the contact represented by this object.
* **“nic-hdl:”** – This attribute specifies the ID of a **person** object. When creating an object, you can specify an "AUTO" ID by setting the value of the attribute to ‘AUTO-1' or ‘AUTO-1&lt;letterCombination&gt;', so the database will assign the ID automatically. If an AUTO ID is requested, it will always end with the source name, e.g. ‘-RIPE'. If you choose the value yourself you can use a two-letter international country code instead of the source at the end or you can just leave out this suffix. For example DW-RIPE, DW-NL and DW are all valid NIC Handles.
* **“mnt-ref:”** – This attribute references **mntner** objects that provide a set of authorisation tokens used for creating references to this **person** object in any other object.



## Description of the POEM Object

Below shows the object template for the **poem** object. It lists all possible attributes that are allowed in this object type.

    Attribute Name  Presence   Repeat     Indexed
    poem:           mandatory  single     primary/lookup key
    descr:          optional   multiple  
    form:           mandatory  single     inverse key
    text:           mandatory  multiple  
    author:         optional   multiple   inverse key
    remarks:        optional   multiple  
    notify:         optional   multiple   inverse key
    mnt-by:         mandatory  single     inverse key
    created:        generated  single
    last-modified:  generated  single
    source:         mandatory  single  

A **poem** object contains a poem that is submitted by a user. It has no operational use and reflects the humorous side of industry representatives.

**Description of Attributes Specific to the POEM Object**

* **"poem:"** – This attribute specifies the title of the poem.
* **“descr:”** – A short description related to the object.
* **“form:”** – This attribute specifies the identifier of a registered poem type. These are set by the **poetic-form** objects.
* **“text:”** – This attribute specifies the body of the poem. It must be humorous, but not malicious or insulting. It should be written in the style of the "form:".
* **“author:”** – This attribute is the NIC Handle of the person who entered the poem.



## Description of the POETIC-FORM Object

Below is the object template for the **poetic-form** object. It lists all possible attributes that are allowed in this object type.

    Attribute Name  Presence   Repeat     Indexed
    poetic-form:    mandatory  single     primary/lookup key
    descr:          optional   multiple  
    admin-c:        mandatory  multiple   inverse key
    remarks:        optional   multiple  
    notify:         optional   multiple   inverse key
    mnt-by:         mandatory  single     inverse key
    created:        generated  single
    last-modified:  generated  single
    source:         mandatory  single  

A **poetic-form** object defines the supported poem types. A new ‘poetic form' must be approved by the community ‘style council'. For more details, contact the [RIPE Database Working Group](mailto:db-wg@ripe.net) or [RIPE NCC Customer Services](https://www.ripe.net/contact-form?topic=ripe_dbm).

**Description of Attributes Specific to the POETIC-FORM Object**

* **"poetic-form:"** – This attribute starts with "FORM-". It is followed by the name of an internationally recognised poetic format of humorous writing. For example, limerick or haiku.
* **“descr:”** – This attribute describes the style of the poetic form, written in the form style. For example, if it is a FORM-LIMERICK, the description will be written as a limerick.
* **"mnt-by:"** - The poetic-form object must contain a single "mnt-by:" attribute. The object must be maintained by RIPE-DBM-MNT.



## Description of the ROLE Object

Below is the object template for the **role** object. It lists all possible attributes that are allowed in this object type. Required attributes are shown as ‘mandatory'.

    Attribute Name  Presence   Repeat     Indexed
    role:           mandatory  single     lookup key
    address:        mandatory  multiple  
    phone:          optional   multiple  
    fax-no:         optional   multiple  
    e-mail:         mandatory  multiple   lookup key
    org:            optional   multiple   inverse key
    admin-c:        optional   multiple   inverse key
    tech-c:         optional   multiple   inverse key
    nic-hdl:        mandatory  single     primary/lookup key
    remarks:        optional   multiple  
    notify:         optional   multiple   inverse key
    abuse-mailbox:  optional   single     inverse key
    mnt-by:         mandatory  multiple   inverse key
    mnt-ref:        optional   multiple   inverse key
    created:        generated  single
    last-modified:  generated  single
    source:         mandatory  single   

A **role** object is similar to a **person** object. However, instead of describing a single person, it describes a role performed by one or more people. This might be a help desk, network monitoring centre, team of system administrators, etc. A **role** object is useful since often a person performing a specific function may change while the role itself remains.

The **role** object should only include business information about the role. It should not contain any personal information, although it can reference **person** objects. The original intention was that the **role** object should be used in every other object where contacts are referenced. The **person** object was only intended to be referenced by the **role** object. However, business rules were never built into the software to enforce this. As a consequence, the **person** and **role** objects have been used inter changeably in almost any situation where contacts are referenced. The "role:" attribute is not the primary key of this object, even though it is the first attribute. The name in the “role:” attribute can be changed by the user.

The **person** and **role** objects are the only objects where the first attribute is not (even part of) the primary key of the database object. For these objects the primary key is the “nic-hdl:” attribute. Both these objects ‘share' the use of the primary key. So it is not possible to have a **person** object with the same “nic-hdl:” value as a role object. The two objects have become almost interchangeable and in most situations either can be used. But it is not possible to convert one into the other. It is not possible to determine if an object is a **person** or **role** object from the “nic-hdl:”.

If a **role** object is deleted, it is not possible to recreate it with the same NIC Handle. This rule was only introduced in 2009. Before that date, the NIC Handles could be re-used. Some caution should be exercised when looking at the history of objects that reference NIC Handles. A **person** or **role** object in the database now with that NIC handle may not be the same person or contact as the one using this NIC handle in the historical reference.

References to **person** objects is optional. A help desk can be represented by a **role** object. The role contains all the details needed to contact the help desk. It may not be necessary to identify the individuals who make up a team to provide support. Anyone with a problem will contact the help desk and ‘someone' will respond and provide support. Therefore, no **person** objects need to be referenced by this help desk **role** object.

**Description of Attributes Specific to the ROLE Object**


* **"role:"** – This attribute specifies a name for the role. As this is business data rather than personal data, the structure of the “role:” value is similar to the “org-name:” in the **organisation** object.
* **“address:”** – This is a full postal address for the role represented by this object.
* **“phone:”** – This is a phone number for the role represented by this object. It specifies a telephone number in international shorthand. It must start with a '+' followed by the international country code, area code and number, optionally be followed by an extension number.
* **“fax-no:”** – This is a fax number for the role represented by this object.
* **“e-mail:”** – This is an email address for the role represented by this object.
* **“abuse-mailbox:”** – The **role** object is the only place that this attribute should be used. It represents the email address to be used when someone wants to report abuse from an Internet resource. A **role** object with an “abuse-mailbox:” attribute can be referenced by an “abuse-c:” attribute in an **organisation** object. For more details see the section on Abuse Handling.
* **“nic-hdl:”** – This attribute specifies the ID of a **role** object. When creating an object, you can specify an "AUTO" ID by setting the value of the attribute to ‘AUTO-1' or ‘AUTO-1&lt;letterCombination&gt;', so the database will assign the ID automatically. If an AUTO ID is requested, it will always end with the source name, e.g. ‘-RIPE'. If you choose the value yourself you can use a two-letter international country code instead of the source at the end or you can just leave out this suffix. For example DW-RIPE, DW-NL and DW are all valid NIC handles.
* **“mnt-ref:”** – This attribute references **mntner** objects that provide a set of authorisation tokens used for creating references to this **role** object in any other object.
