# Protection of Reverse Delegation Objects

The creation of **domain** objects for "in-addr.arpa" and “ip6.arpa" domains must satisfy several authorization criteria. As with all objects, it must satisfy its own **mntner** object references in the “mnt-by:” attributes. It must also satisfy a hierarchical authorization. Both authorizations must be passed for the object to be created. For modification and deletion of a **domain** object, only its own **mntner** object in the “mnt-by:” attributes needs to authorize the operation. Where a deletion fails, **mntner** objects referenced in a "mnt-domains", "mnt-lower" or "mnt-by" attribute of the corresponding **inet(6)num** object can authorize the deletion. They will be checked in this order. The first attribute type found will be taken as the only one to use.

The hierarchical authorization uses the related address space objects. An address space object (**inetnum** or **inet6num**) with an exact matching prefix will be used; otherwise a less specific prefix is used. One of these objects will always be found in the database. Following this order, the first valid object found is the one used to authorize the new object creation. If the supplied credentials do not satisfy the authorization required by this first valid object found, then authorization fails. The software does not look for the next possible valid object in the sequence.

There is no hierarchy allowed in the reverse **domain** objects. Therefore, no hierarchical authorization is required from the **domain** objects, as is also the case for **route** objects.