---
permalink: /How-to-Recover-Access-to-a-Maintainer-Object
---

# How to Recover Access to a Maintainer (MNTNER) Object

If you have lost access to your maintainer (**mntner**) object, you can send us a request to recover this.

[Recover now](https://apps.db.ripe.net/db-web-ui/fmp)

Depending on the information that you provide, we will process your request automatically or manually.

We will then add a RIPE NCC Access account to the **mntner** object. This RIPE NCC Access account holder will then be able to authorise updates in the RIPE Database.

If you have any questions about the process, please [contact us](https://www.ripe.net/contact-form?topic=ripe_dbm).


## Automated Process

1. Please check whether you can access the email account listed in the "upd-to:" attribute of the **mntner** object. If you cannot access this email account, you can ask for the request to be handled manually instead.
1. We will send an email containing a unique recovery link to this email address. This link will expire after 12 hours.
1. You will be prompted to log in to RIPE NCC Access. Please log in using the RIPE NCC Access account that you wish to add to the **mntner** object.
1. Once logged in, confirm that we should add your RIPE NCC Access account to the **mntner** object.
1. From now on you can update the RIPE Database while you are logged in to RIPE NCC Access.

[Update now](https://apps.db.ripe.net/db-web-ui/fmp)


## Manual Process

1. In order for us to manually process your request, please send us the following paperwork (you must complete both steps): 
    * An auto-generated PDF statement. Please print the PDF on your company's letterhead, sign it and return it to us.
    * A recent copy of your company registration papers.
1. We will send you an email with a unique recovery link once we've verified your paperwork.
1. You will be prompted to log in to RIPE NCC Access. Please log in using the account that you wish to add to the **mntner** object.
1. Once logged in, confirm that we should add your RIPE NCC Access account to the **mntner** object.
1. From now on you can update the RIPE Database while you are logged in to RIPE NCC Access.

[Update now](https://apps.db.ripe.net/db-web-ui/fmp)




