# Legal information

Below you will find all our legal documentation. Click though items below to visit individual policies and information.

# Copyright Statement

**Copyright (c) 1992-2022 the Réseaux IP Européens Network Coordination Centre RIPE NCC. All rights restricted.**

The User acknowledges that any and all copyright, database rights, trade marks and other intellectual property rights subsisting in or used in connection with the RIPE NCC Materials are and shall remain the property of the RIPE NCC. Except as explicitly provided herein or noted for specific RIPE NCC services, the RIPE NCC Materials may not be used, reproduced and made available to third parties without prior written authorisation from the RIPE NCC.

“RIPE NCC Materials” are any materials contained on any webpages whose domain name include the domain name ripe.net, including materials on the RIPE and LIR Portal sections of this website. RIPE NCC Materials do not however include materials on this website that are written by third parties not employed or commissioned by the RIPE NCC (such as [RIPE policy documents](https://www.ripe.net/publications/docs) or [mailing list contributions](https://www.ripe.net/participate/mail)). Any intellectual property rights in such materials may reside in that third party. The RIPE NCC is not responsible for the content of any materials created or written by such third parties.

The RIPE NCC Materials may be used for private purposes, for public non-commercial purpose, for research, for educational or demonstration purposes, or if the materials in question specifically state that use of the material is permissible, and provided the RIPE NCC Materials are not modified and are properly identified as RIPE NCC documents. Unless authorised by the RIPE NCC in writing, any use of the RIPE NCC Materials for advertising or marketing purposes is strictly forbidden and may be prosecuted. The RIPE NCC should be notified of any such activities or suspicions thereof.

Please be advised that no copyrights originate with the RIPE community but instead with the creator of the material, whether that be the RIPE NCC or any other individual or organisation whose material appears on the RIPE NCC website or RIPE website.

Use of the RIPE Database is subject to the [RIPE Database Terms and Conditions](18.HTML-Legal-Information.md#terms-of-service) and [RIPE Database Acceptable Use Policy](17.RIPE-Database-Acceptable-Use-Policy.md#ripe-database-acceptable-use-policy)

# RIPE NCC Privacy Statement

This is a live document. We will keep reviewing our processes and updating the Privacy Statement accordingly.

## 1. Introduction
The RIPE NCC respects the privacy of your personal information and is committed to protecting the personal information that you provide. This RIPE NCC Privacy Statement applies to all personal information the RIPE NCC processes, including the collecting, publication, sharing and usage of personal information. The RIPE NCC Privacy Statement describes how the RIPE NCC processes your personal data and how you can access and make changes to your personal data.

## 2. Processing your personal data
The main purpose for which the RIPE NCC processes personal information is to support its role as a Regional Internet Registry (RIR). The main activity to fulfil this role is the registration and administration of Internet number resources, including the maintenance of the public RIPE Database (see 2.1).

Additionally, the RIPE NCC processes personal information for the purpose of performing activities for the benefit of the RIPE NCC members or for the benefit of the RIPE community (see 2.2).

## 2.1. Personal data in the RIPE Database
The public RIPE Database shows registration details of Internet number resources. The records may contain contact details (name, email address, phone and fax numbers and postal address) of persons responsible for the operation of networks or routers and/or for maintaining the information in the RIPE Database.

In some cases, the RIPE NCC provides the initial registration. Subsequently, the personal information pertaining to a specific registration is provided and maintained by a person authorised by, or acting on behalf of, the person or entity to which the Internet number resources have been registered. Updating is subject to an authentication and authorisation procedure (see 5). Please note that the RIPE NCC is not responsible for data entered into the RIPE Database by third parties. The person who enters personal data is responsible for keeping all data they maintain accurate and up-to-date, including maintaining correct contact details (see 6).

The RIPE NCC publishes the contact details as part of the registration details of Internet number resources to make it possible for the RIPE NCC and the Internet network community to contact the appropriate persons when it is necessary:

* To secure the proper functioning of the Internet;
* To prevent or redress possible misuse of the Internet;
* To improve the quality of the data;
* To protect the information stored in the RIPE Database;
* To prevent any unauthorised modification of information stored in the RIPE Database;
* To ensure accountability for information entered into the RIPE Database.

The RIPE Database may also be mirrored to databases operated by other RIRs, excluding database objects that are meant to include personal information. The databases of other RIRs may also be mirrored to databases operated by the RIPE NCC. This system allows users to retrieve data on all Internet resource registrations worldwide from the RIR in their region

The RIPE NCC also, for the purposes specified above, allows proxy access to the RIPE Database via third parties. In addition, third parties may use a Near Real Time Mirror (NRTM) of the RIPE Database or access its contents in bulk via nightly dump and split files that are published by the RIPE NCC. In both cases, database objects that are meant to include personal information are excluded.

Where necessary for the above purposes, and to comply with statutory obligations, the RIPE NCC may also keep historical data (data that was published in the RIPE Database before the record was updated) and RIPE Database update requests.

## 2.2. Processing your personal data for other purposes
In addition to the collection and use of personal data in relation to the RIPE Database, the RIPE NCC provides other services and activities that may require the processing of your personal information. These include:

1. RIPE NCC member services: the RIPE NCC may request contact details for services such as relationship management, accounting and billing;
2. LIR Portal and the RIPE NCC website (www.ripe.net): processing of messages, service requests and information requests;
3. RIPE community and RIPE NCC membership mailing lists: messages including name, email address, date and message content are published in the mailing lists and mailing list archives to support the open and transparent RIPE Policy Development Process and discussions of membership-related issues;
4. Event registration administration for meetings, training courses and other organised events: the RIPE NCC may publish lists of attendees on a website as part of its commitment to open and transparent policy development. These lists contain the name of the attendee and their organisation, but no contact details or other personal details.
5. Publicly-available services as defined in the RIPE NCC Website and Publicly Available Services Terms of Service: the RIPE NCC may request contact details for purposes related to the provision and proper function of these services such as information requests, installation, support, maintenance, billing, relationship management and administration.

The RIPE NCC may use contact details provided in relation to all of the above activities to send you relevant information on its activities and services, such as announcements on network upgrades, outages, RIPE NCC services, RIPE Meetings, training courses and other organised events. The RIPE NCC may also forward public messages to a particular mailing list on occasion if it is relevant and appropriate for that list. If you do not wish to receive such messages, you can unsubscribe yourself at any time (see 5).

In addition to the above, the RIPE NCC may register, process or transfer your personal data where such is required pursuant to a statutory duty.

## 2.3. Sharing your personal data with third parties
The RIPE NCC may engage third parties for the provision of RIPE NCC services. In such cases, personal data collected for that particular purpose may be shared with these parties.

The RIPE NCC undertakes to engage parties that offer equivalent levels of security and protection and to make any appropriate contractual and organisational arrangements so that the data shared is limited to that required for the respective purpose and is not processed for longer than necessary.

If for the provision of the third-party services,  personal data is transferred to a country outside the European Economic Area, this will happen in accordance with the Dutch and EU data protection laws.

## 3. Protection and secrecy of your information
The RIPE NCC maintains strict procedures to authenticate people's identity and verify their right to authorise changes to their personal information.

Personal data held in the RIPE Database is available to the public. Use of the RIPE Database is subject to the [RIPE Database Terms and Conditions](18.HTML-Legal-Information.md#terms-of-service). The RIPE NCC operates a technical query-limiting process as well as an [Acceptable Use Policy](https://www.ripe.net/manage-ips-and-asns/db/support/documentation/ripe-database-acceptable-use-policy/ripe-database-acceptable-use-policy) to prevent data mining of large amounts of personal data through the RIPE Database query service. People attempting to abuse this service will have their access to the RIPE Database blocked.

The RIPE NCC maintains a high level of physical security and protection for all of its computer and network facilities, especially those in which personal information may be stored.

## 4. Use of Cookies
## 4.1 What is a cookie and what are cookies used for?
“Cookies” are small files that a browser can record after visiting a website. These files are set on your computer (or any other device with which you visit a website) through your browser.

Websites operated by the RIPE NCC use cookies that:

* Are strictly necessary for the provision of the services that are available through the website and facilitate your use of these services (e.g. to identify you when you are logged in)
* Improve your experience by recording information about your settings (e.g. your location)
* Collect anonymous statistical information on the use of the website that help us improve the performance of the RIPE NCC website (e.g. the number of visitors to each part of our websites and their origin)
* Help us study the IPv6 capability of visitors, by making sure that your IPv6 capability is only measured once

The RIPE NCC **does not use** cookies for online behavioural advertising purposes nor does it share information collected via cookies with any third parties.

Some of these cookies are deleted once you close your browser. Others are set for longer periods of time.

For detailed information about the cookies used by the RIPE NCC, the purpose of these cookies and the period they remain active, please see the [list of cookies](https://www.ripe.net/about-us/legal/cookies).

## 4.2 Third party cookies
During your visit to the RIPE NCC website, third parties may also set cookies on your device. These cookies are set when you visit a page which has content embedded from third-party sites, such as YouTube.

## 4.3 Disabling cookies
You can disable cookies by adjusting your browser settings Please check the “help” menu of your browser for information about how to change your cookie preferences. However you may not be able to use all website features if cookies are disabled.

## 5. Accessing and changing your information
You have the right to ask that inaccurate or incomplete data relating to you is rectified. In order to fulfil our obligation, the RIPE NCC will ask you to identify yourself.

RIPE NCC members can view their registration information online via the LIR Portal. You may be able to access and change your personal data using the LIR Portal on behalf of your organisation. The RIPE NCC will help those who may have trouble modifying their own data. To prevent unauthorised access and changes to your personal data, you will have to log in with your credentials (i.e. Reg ID, username and password).

If you are not authorised to change your personal data in the RIPE Database, please refer to the authorised person (the maintainer, i.e. the person or entity indicated on the record as “mnt-by:”). If the maintainer does not respond, you may refer to the [RIPE NCC Procedure for the Removal of Personal Contact Details from the RIPE Database](https://www.ripe.net/manage-ips-and-asns/db/support/documentation/removal-of-personal-data).

This procedure describes the terms under which the RIPE NCC may remove personal data from the RIPE Database upon the request of the data subject.

If you are subscribed to any RIPE mailing lists, you can unsubscribe yourself at any time or change your preferences by accessing this web page:

[http://www.ripe.net/participate/mail](http://www.ripe.net/participate/mail)

If you are subscribed to a RIPE NCC membership mailing list, you can unsubscribe by logging in to the LIR Portal of the member you represent and changing your details in the “Subscribed Mailing Lists” section.

If your name has been published on the RIPE NCC website as part of the attendee list for an event or meeting and you wish to be deleted from the list, please contact [meeting@ripe.net](mailto:meeting@ripe.net).

If you have questions or concerns about the accuracy or appropriateness of any other personal information held by the RIPE NCC, please contact [ncc@ripe.net](mailto:ncc@ripe.net). RIPE NCC will respond and seek to correct any problems as soon as possible.

If you disagree with the RIPE NCC’s response or did not receive adequate support, you have the right to file a complaint with the [Dutch Data Protection Authority (Autoriteit Persoonsgegevens)](https://autoriteitpersoonsgegevens.nl).

## 6. Changes to this privacy statement
The RIPE NCC may change this privacy statement from time to time. The current version of the privacy statement will be available on www.ripe.net.

## 7. Questions or suggestions
If you have any questions, suggestions or concerns about the issues discussed in this document, please email us at [ncc@ripe.net](mailto:ncc@ripe.net).

# <a name='terms-of-service'></a>RIPE Database Terms and Conditions
The RIPE NCC shall make the RIPE Database publicly accessible under these RIPE Database Terms and Conditions (hereinafter: the ‘Terms and Conditions’). The Terms
and Conditions shall apply to anyone who accesses and uses the RIPE Database.

## Introduction

The RIPE NCC is authorised by the RIPE community to act as the registration authority for Internet number resources in its service region and to manage the operation of the RIPE Database.


## Article 1 - Definitions

In the Terms and Conditions, the following terms shall be understood to have the meanings assigned to them below:

RIPE NCC - Réseaux IP Européens Network Coordination Centre. A membership association under Dutch law operation its registered office in Amsterdam, the Netherlands.

RIPE community - RIPE (Réseaux IP Européens) is a collaborative forum open to all parties interested in wide area IP networks in Europe and beyond. The objective of RIPE is to ensure the administrative and technical coordination necessary to enable the operation of a pan-European IP network.

Update - submitting information for entry into or removal from the RIPE Database

Query - requesting information from the RIPE Database

Access - Update and Query the RIPE Database

Internet number resources - globally unique address space (IPv4 and IPv6) and Autonomous Systems Numbers (ASNs) issued by any Internet Number Registry.

Primary objects - Internet number resources and other data object types that are not directly related to any other primary object type and which are defined by Routing Policy Specification Language (RPSL) or which have been agreed by the RIPE Community as acceptable primary data.

Secondary objects - objects that are defined by RPSL or which have been agreed by the RIPE Community as acceptable secondary data and which are related, either directly or indirectly, to primary objects.

RIPE Database - the publicly available data collection of Internet Number Registry (INR) and Internet Routing Registry (IRR) data published by the RIPE NCC. It contains all the primary and secondary objects. There is also some non-public data required for the operation of the RIPE Database and the registries, but this non-public data does not form part of the RIPE Database.

Registrant - a natural person or legal entity to whom an Internet number resource has been registered or who has registered any other primary object in the RIPE Database by specific or general agreement with the RIPE NCC.

Maintainer - any Registrant or person to whom the authority to Update has been delegated by a Registrant either directly or indirectly, and who holds an identifier that allows updates to be authenticated and authorised.

User - anyone who Accesses the RIPE Database. This includes Registrants and Maintainers.

RPSL - [Routing Policy Specification Language](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2622)

Internet Number Registry (INR) - a registry that allocates Internet number resources and holds and publishes details of Internet number resource information.

Internet Routing Registry (IRR) - a registry that holds and publishes details of Internet routing information.

Contact details - all details relating to name, postal address, phone, fax, e-mail or any other form of electronic communication that is used by a natural person or a legal entity.


## Article 2 - General

1. Access to the RIPE Database is available to anyone provided these Terms and Conditions are followed.
1. Users may only Access the RIPE Database and the data contained therein to the extent permitted by these Terms and Conditions. A User who Accesses the RIPE Database agrees to these Terms and Conditions.
1. Only Registrants and the RIPE NCC have the authority to Update the RIPE Database. To Update the RIPE Database, a Registrant has to take on the role of a Maintainer or authorise a third party to act as Maintainer on his behalf.
1. A Registrant who accepts a registration of an Internet number resource from the RIPE NCC, or who registers any other Primary object in the RIPE Database, or who copies a registration of an Internet number resource from another registry into the RIPE Database, must accept these Terms and Conditions before assuming a Registrant's authority to Update the RIPE Database, even if that authority is then delegated to a Maintainer.
1. A Maintainer who is not a Registrant must accept these Terms and Conditions before accepting the delegated authority from a Registrant to Update the RIPE Database.
1. A Maintainer may only Update the RIPE Database with these types of data:
    * Internet number resources for which the Registrant holds a valid registration
    * Primary objects that are not Internet number resources, for which the Registrant has agreement to register
    * Secondary objects related to either of the above
1. A Secondary object must be related to an existing or intended valid Primary object at the time of the Update to create the Secondary object in the RIPE Database. At any time this relationship becomes no longer valid, or the intended relation is never completed, the Secondary object must be deleted. It may be subject to automatic deletion by the RIPE Database management software at any time if it is invalid.
1. Registrants and Maintainers will assist the RIPE NCC with security checks and audits as appropriate.


## Article 3 - Purpose of the RIPE Database

The RIPE Database contains information for the following purposes:

* Ensuring the uniqueness of Internet number resource usage through registration of information related to the resources and Registrants
* Publishing routing policies by network operators (IRR)
* Facilitating coordination between network operators (network problem resolution, outage notification etc.)
* Provisioning of Reverse Domain Name System (DNS) and ENUM delegations
* Providing information about the Registrant and Maintainer of Internet number resources when the resources are suspected of being used for unlawful activities, to parties who are authorised under the law to receive such information.
* Scientific research into network operations and topology
* Providing information to parties involved in disputes over Internet number resource registrations to parties who are authorised under the law to receive such information.


## Article 4 - Use of the RIPE Database

1. A User may only Access the RIPE Database and the data contained therein for any of the purposes as mentioned in Article 3 hereof and provided these Terms and Conditions are followed. The RIPE NCC is not responsible for any use of data retrieved from the RIPE Database directly or indirectly.
1. Users may only conduct queries or submit updates of a nature, rate or volume permitted by the [Acceptable Use Policy](docs/17.RIPE-Database-Acceptable-Use-Policy.md#ripe-database-acceptable-use-policy).
1. The RIPE NCC records details about all queries and updates for purposes including detecting and preventing unacceptable use.
1. Users may not use the RIPE Database or the data contained therein for advertising, direct marketing, marketing research or similar purposes.
1. A User may not re-package, download, compile, re-distribute or re-use any or all of the RIPE Database or the data contained therein unless he does so only with an insubstantial part of the RIPE Database or the data contained therein or when permission to do so is granted by the RIPE NCC.
1. A Maintainer can authenticate updates by using a personal or organisation's identifier of a type supported by the RIPE Database authentication scheme.
1. The RIPE NCC will assume that any action done, or asked for, using that identifier was carried out, or asked for, by the Maintainer who holds that identifier.
1. The RIPE NCC may at its sole discretion implement procedures for dealing with lost, cancelled or insecure identifiers.


## Article 5 - Control of the RIPE Database

1. The RIPE NCC may correct or delete RIPE Database data:
    * according to RIPE policies
    * to comply with applicable law
    * if so ordered by any competent court
    * to fulfill any legal obligation
    * when a breach of the Terms and Conditions has occurred
    * for management operations of the RIPE Database
    * if any data is inaccurate
    * if any data is entered by someone who is not authorised to do so
1. The RIPE NCC may withdraw the service provided hereunder from a User at any time and is entitled, in its sole discretion, to terminate or slow down a User's Access to the RIPE Database for any reason, particularly a failure to adhere to the Terms and Conditions.
1. The RIPE NCC may suspend Access to the RIPE Database, or part thereof, for maintenance purposes, upgrades, security fixes and deployment of new services subject to notification of the RIPE community.
1. The RIPE NCC may, in accordance with the Removal of Personal Data procedure, remove the personal data of an individual upon request by this individual. The RIPE NCC will only take such action when convinced that a valid request from the right person is received.


## Article 6 - Responsibilities

1. The RIPE NCC does not guarantee the accuracy, or completeness or availability of the RIPE Database or of the data contained therein.
1. The Maintainer is responsible for keeping all data maintained by him accurate and up-to-date, including correct Contact Details. The data must be good enough to allow the RIPE NCC to contact the Maintainer or Registrant within a reasonable time without having to get information from another source.
1. The Maintainer who enters personal data into the RIPE Database has a responsibility to inform the individual to whom the data pertains and to obtain his/her explicit consent for the entry in the public RIPE Database if required by law.
1. The RIPE NCC is not responsible for the use and any issues arising from the use of any registered Internet number resources.


## Article 7 - Liability

1. Use of the RIPE Database and the data contained therein is at the User's own risk.
1. With the exception of any wilful damage or gross negligence committed by the RIPE NCC or its managerial staff, neither the RIPE NCC nor any of its officers, directors, employees, agents or other representatives who make the RIPE Database available or provide any other service whatsoever to the User, shall be liable to the User or to any third party, including any governmental agency, for any claims, losses, damages, liabilities or expenses whatsoever relating directly or indirectly to the use of the RIPE Database, and the User agrees to hold harmless, indemnify and defend the RIPE NCC, its officers, directors, employees, agents or other representatives for any such claims, losses, damages, liabilities or expenses, and all costs and expenses that may be incurred in relation to the use of the RIPE Database, including reasonable attorney's fees.
1. All rights of legal action and other entitlements on the part of the User towards the RIPE NCC in connection with the (use of) the RIPE Database shall lapse as soon as a one year term has expired since the date on which the User has become aware of or could in all fairness have been aware of the existence of such rights and entitlements.


## Article 8 - Miscellaneous

1. If any provision in these Terms and Conditions is held to be invalid in a court of law, this shall not in any way affect the validity of the remaining provisions.
1. The User acknowledges and accepts that the Terms and Conditions may be amended by the RIPE NCC. The RIPE NCC will make an announcement at least one month prior to any such amendment coming into effect, unless a more immediate change is required for legal or operational reasons.
1. Changes can also be effected through the [Policy Development Process](https://www.ripe.net/participate/policies).


## Article 9 - Intellectual property rights

1. The User acknowledges that any and all copyright, trade marks, database rights and other intellectual property rights subsisting in or used in connection with the RIPE Database, the data contained therein, the underlying software and any accompanying documents and agreements are and shall remain the property of the RIPE NCC.
1. Except as provided herein, the RIPE Database, the data contained therein and any accompanying documents and agreements may not be used, reproduced or made available to third parties without prior written authorisation from the RIPE NCC.


## Article 10 - Governing law

These Terms and Conditions shall be exclusively governed by the laws of the Netherlands. The competent court in Amsterdam shall have exclusive jurisdiction with regard to disputes arising from these Terms and Conditions.

# Cookies used by the RIPE NCC
This page also covers other non-cookie tracking technologies (e.g. pixels tags, device fingerprinting, unique identifiers).

| **Cookie name**                                                                                                                       | **Purpose**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | **Term**                                   | 
|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------|
| **Serverid**<br>**JSESSIONID**<br>**PHPSESSID**                                                                                       | These cookie identifies the user. It is used for tying the user session to a particular application server. This cookie is set when you visit any of our pages being served from our content management systems. It is used to help our server to handle your requests in the most efficient way and is deleted when you quit your browser.                                                                                                                                                                                         | Expires when the browser session is closed. |
| **crowd.token_key**                                                                                                                   | This cookie identifies the user. It is used to authenticate logged-in single-sign-on (RIPE NCC Access) users.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | Expires when the browser session is closed |
| _**pk_ref (6 months)**<br>**_pk_cvar (30 minutes)**<br>**_pk_id (13 months)**<br>**_pk_ses (30 minutes)**<br>**_pk_hsr (30 minutes)** | These cookies are used by Matomo for analytical purposes. They only store anonymous data. This data is stored internally and not shared with third parties.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Specific to each cookie, see first column |
| **lastKnownLocationLng**<br>**lastKnownLocationLat**<br>**lastKnownLocationZoom**                                                     | This cookie saves the state of the LIR Locator application. When the user opens the page again, they will find the same location they had in their previous visit.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |Expires after 3 months|
| **m2mTermsAccepted**                                                                                                                  | This cookie is set when users accept Terms of Service or Terms and Conditions of a service. If this cookie is not set, users will be asked to accept terms every time before they use a RIPE NCC service.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |Expires after 3 months|
| **firstVisit-beta**                                                                                                                   | This cookie prevents help information from appearing again after the user has discarded it.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |Expires after 3 months|
| **stat-session**<br>**atlasessp**                                                                                                     | These are standard cookies for user identification and session persistence.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |Expires after 2 weeks|
| **stat-csrftoken**<br>**csrftoken**                                                                                                   | These cookies enhance security to protect from cross-site scripting attacks. Presently they are used to support comments forms.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |Expires after 1 year|
| **crowd.ripe.hint**                                                                                                                   | This cookie is used to identify logged in users among RIPE NCC services (Single Sign On).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |Expires when the browser session is closed|
| **PREF**                                                                                                                              | This cookie is used for YouTube services. It is handling user preferences. It is beyond the RIPE NCC's control. Use of YouTube services like embedded video require that the user request those services from YouTube directly, which in turn sets this cookie. Users interested in Google policies around this cookie should consult their privacy policy site: [http://www.google.com/intl/en/policies/](http://www.google.com/intl/en/policies/)                                                                                 |Expires after 10 years|
| **VISITOR_INFO1_LIVE**                                                                                                                | For YouTube services.This cookie is used for YouTube services. It is handling visitor data to aid in streaming quality. It is beyond the RIPE NCC's control. Use of YouTube services like embedded video require that the user request those services from YouTube directly, which in turn sets this cookie. Users interested in Google policies around this cookie should consult their privacy policy site: [http://www.google.com/intl/en/policies/](http://www.google.com/intl/en/policies/)                                    |Expires after 1 year|
| <b>\_icl_current\_\*</b>                                                                                                              | Cookies set to help display the correct/chosen language to the user on www.enog.org                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |Expires after 24 hours|
| <b>wp-settings-time-\*</b>                                                                                                            | Cookie set when you log into the system to submit a topic/presentation on www.enog.org                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |Expires after 1 year|
| **tableau_locale**,<br>**tableau_public_negotiated_locale**,<br>**langPref**                                                          | Cookies set by Tableau to remember the visitors' browser locale.These cookies are beyond the control of the RIPE NCC and are set by Tableau when a user accesses Tableau data visualisations embedded on all ripe.net websites. Users interested in Tableau's cookie policies should consult their privacy policy: [https://www.tableau.com/privacy](https://www.tableau.com/privacy)                                                                                                                                               |Expires when the browser session is closed|
| **has_js**                                                                                                                            | Cookie set by Tableau to identify if the visitor has JavaScript enabled or not. <br> This cookie is beyond the control of the RIPE NCC and is set by Tableau when a user accesses Tableau data visualisations embedded on all ripe.net websites. Users interested in Tableau's cookie policies should consult their privacy policy: [https://www.tableau.com/privacy](https://www.tableau.com/privacy)                                                                                                                              |Expires when the browser session is closed|
| **SimpleSAMLSessionID**                                                                                                               | Cookie set by Tableau to maintain the current session of the visitor.<br>This cookie is beyond the control of the RIPE NCC and is set by Tableau when a user accesses Tableau data visualisations embedded on all ripe.net websites. Users interested in Tableau's cookie policies should consult their privacy policy: [https://www.tableau.com/privacy](https://www.tableau.com/privacy)                                                                                                                                                                         |Expires when the browser session is closed|
| **Information stored on Local Storage when using usersnap**                                                                           | Usersnap store some information in the user's browser's "localstorage" to remember data already filled out by the user and for handling their session. <br>This information is beyond the control of the RIPE NCC and is stored in a user's browser's "localstorage" when they submit their feedback via the Usersnap tool embedded on a particular RIPE NCC website. Users interested in Tableau's cookie policies should consult their privacy policy: [https://usersnap.com/privacy-policy](https://usersnap.com/privacy-policy) |Persistent unless removed by the user|
| **zlcprivacy**                                                                                                                        | Used by the Zendesk chat widget.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |Expires after 1 year|
| **zlcmid**                                                                                                                            | Used by the Zendesk chat widget.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |Expires after 1 year|
| **open-live-chat**                                                                                                                    | Used to open the Zendesk chat widget window.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |Expires when the browser session is closed|

# Legal
## Arbitration
* [RIPE NCC Conflict Arbitration Procedure](https://www.ripe.net/about-us/legal/arbitration)
* [Request for Arbitration Form](https://www.ripe.net/participate/forms/apply/ripe-ncc-arbitration-request-form/)
* [List of Arbiters](https://www.ripe.net/about-us/legal/arbitration/list-of-arbiters)
* [Summary of Arbitration Rulings](https://www.ripe.net/about-us/legal/arbitration/summary-of-arbitration-rulings)

## Corporate Governance
We aim to implement corporate governance best practice where possible. We operate under transparent organisational, management and Executive Board structures.

We have clear and open communication channels regarding our operations. There is also a clear division of responsibilities and duties between members, the Executive Board and the management team, as stated in the RIPE NCC Articles of Association.

* [RIPE NCC Articles of Association](https://www.ripe.net/publications/docs/ripe-752)
* [RIPE NCC Treasury Statute](https://www.ripe.net/about-us/legal/corporate-governance/treasury-statute)
* [Standard Service Agreement](https://www.ripe.net/publications/docs/ripe-745)
* [Clearing House Procedure](https://www.ripe.net/publications/docs/ripe-625)
* [Adoption Process for RIPE NCC Corporate Documents](https://www.ripe.net/about-us/legal/corporate-governance/adoption-process-for-ripe-ncc-corporate-documents)
* [RIPE NCC Privacy Statement](https://www.ripe.net/about-us/legal/ripe-ncc-privacy-statement)
* [RIPE NCC Audit Activity](https://www.ripe.net/publications/docs/ripe-694)
* [Due Diligence for the Quality of the RIPE NCC Registration Data](https://www.ripe.net/publications/docs/ripe-770)
* [RIPE NCC Billing Procedure and Fee Schedule Document](https://www.ripe.net/participate/member-support/payment/ripe-ncc-billing-procedure-2022)
* [RIPE NCC Charging Scheme](https://www.ripe.net/publications/docs/ripe-771)
* [RIPE NCC Charging Scheme Approval](https://www.ripe.net/about-us/legal/corporate-governance/ripe-ncc-charging-scheme-approval)
* [RIPE NCC Data Protection Report](https://www.ripe.net/about-us/legal/ripe-ncc-data-protection-report)
* [GDPR and the RIPE NCC](https://www.ripe.net/about-us/legal/corporate-governance/gdpr-and-the-ripe-ncc)
* [Handling Requests for Information, Orders and Investigations from Law Enforcement Agencies](https://www.ripe.net/publications/docs/ripe-675)
* [The RIPE NCC Executive Board – Nomination, Appointment, Term, Dismissal and Representation](https://www.ripe.net/about-us/legal/corporate-governance/the-ripe-ncc-executive-board-2013-nomination-appointment-term-dismissal-and-representation)
* [Activity Plan and Budget Approval](https://www.ripe.net/about-us/legal/corporate-governance/activity-plan-and-budget-approval)

**Documents for Members**
* [Standard Service Agreement](https://www.ripe.net/publications/docs/ripe-745)
* [Clearing House Procedure](https://www.ripe.net/publications/docs/ripe-625)
* [RIPE NCC Charging Scheme](https://www.ripe.net/publications/docs/ripe-771)
* [RIPE NCC Charging Scheme Approval](https://www.ripe.net/about-us/legal/corporate-governance/ripe-ncc-charging-scheme-approval)
* [RIPE NCC Billing Procedure and Fee Schedule Document](https://www.ripe.net/participate/member-support/payment/billing-procedure-and-fee-schedule-2017)
* [RIPE NCC Audit Activity](https://www.ripe.net/publications/docs/ripe-694)
* [Due Diligence for the Quality of the RIPE NCC Registration Data](https://www.ripe.net/publications/docs/ripe-770)
* [Closure of Members, Deregistration of Internet Resources and Legacy Internet Resources](https://www.ripe.net/publications/docs/ripe-676)
* [RIPE NCC Conflict Arbitration Procedure](https://www.ripe.net/publications/docs/ripe-691)
* [LIR Direct End User PI Assignment Agreement Requirements](https://www.ripe.net/manage-ips-and-asns/resource-management/number-resources/independent-resources/requirements)
* [RIPE NCC Services for Legacy Internet Resources of RIPE NCC Members Terms and Conditions](https://www.ripe.net/publications/docs/ripe-672)
* [Transfer of Internet Number Resources and Change of a Member's Official Legal Name](https://www.ripe.net/publications/docs/ripe-758)
* [Transfer Agreement Template](https://www.ripe.net/manage-ips-and-asns/resource-transfers-and-mergers/transfer-of-ip-addresses-and-as-numbers/transfer-agreement-template)
* [Inter-RIR Transfer of Internet Number Resources](https://www.ripe.net/publications/docs/ripe-656)
* [Confirmation of Transfer to the RIPE NCC Service Region](https://www.ripe.net/manage-ips-and-asns/resource-transfers-and-mergers/inter-rir-transfers/inter-rir-transfer-documents/confirmation-of-transfer-to-the-ripe-ncc-service-region)
* [Confirmation of Transfer from the RIPE NCC Service Region](https://www.ripe.net/manage-ips-and-asns/resource-transfers-and-mergers/inter-rir-transfers/inter-rir-transfer-documents/confirmation-of-transfer-from-the-ripe-ncc-service-region)
* [Statement of Lawful Representation](https://www.ripe.net/about-us/legal/statement-of-lawful-representation)

## Internet Number Resource Documents

* [Standard Service Agreement](https://www.ripe.net/publications/docs/ripe-745)
* [RIPE NCC LIR Account Agreement](https://www.ripe.net/about-us/legal/ripe-ncc-lir-account-agreement)
* [Transfer of Internet Number Resources and Change of a Member's Official Legal Name](https://www.ripe.net/publications/docs/ripe-758)
* [Transfer Agreement Template](https://www.ripe.net/resolveuid/e211e9d97a3f475d96c92d34b2cf7887)
* [Inter-RIR Transfer of Internet Number Resources](https://www.ripe.net/publications/docs/ripe-769)
* [Confirmation of Transfer to the RIPE NCC Service Region](https://www.ripe.net/manage-ips-and-asns/resource-transfers-and-mergers/inter-rir-transfers/inter-rir-transfer-documents/confirmation-of-transfer-to-the-ripe-ncc-service-region)
* [Confirmation of Transfer from the RIPE NCC Service Region](https://www.ripe.net/manage-ips-and-asns/resource-transfers-and-mergers/inter-rir-transfers/inter-rir-transfer-documents/confirmation-of-transfer-from-the-ripe-ncc-service-region)
* [Closure of Members, Deregistration of Internet Resources and Legacy Internet Resources](https://www.ripe.net/publications/docs/ripe-775)
* [Due Diligence for the Quality of the RIPE NCC Registration Data](https://www.ripe.net/publications/docs/ripe-770)
* [Independent Internet Number Resources - Contractual Relationship Changes Between Sponsoring LIR and End Users](https://www.ripe.net/publications/docs/ripe-757)
* [RIPE NCC Audit Activity](https://www.ripe.net/publications/docs/ripe-694)
* [RIPE NCC Charging Scheme](https://www.ripe.net/publications/docs/ripe-771)
* [RIPE NCC Billing Procedure and Fee Schedule Document](https://www.ripe.net/participate/member-support/payment/ripe-ncc-billing-procedure-2022)

**Independent Assignments Documents**
* [LIR Direct End User PI Assignment Agreement Requirements](https://www.ripe.net/manage-ips-and-asns/resource-management/number-resources/independent-resources/requirements)
* [Independent Internet Number Resources - Contractual Relationship Changes Between Sponsoring LIR and End Users](https://www.ripe.net/publications/docs/ripe-757)
* [Transfer of Internet Number Resources and Change of a Member's Official Legal Name](https://www.ripe.net/publications/docs/ripe-758)
* [Transfer Agreement Template](https://www.ripe.net/resolveuid/e211e9d97a3f475d96c92d34b2cf7887)
* [Inter-RIR Transfer of Internet Number Resources](https://www.ripe.net/publications/docs/ripe-769)
* [Confirmation of Transfer to the RIPE NCC Service Region](https://www.ripe.net/manage-ips-and-asns/resource-transfers-and-mergers/inter-rir-transfers/inter-rir-transfer-documents/confirmation-of-transfer-to-the-ripe-ncc-service-region)
* [Confirmation of Transfer from the RIPE NCC Service Region](https://www.ripe.net/manage-ips-and-asns/resource-transfers-and-mergers/inter-rir-transfers/inter-rir-transfer-documents/confirmation-of-transfer-from-the-ripe-ncc-service-region)
* [Closure of Members, Deregistration of Internet Resources and Legacy Internet Resources](https://www.ripe.net/publications/docs/ripe-775)
* [RIPE NCC Charging Scheme](https://www.ripe.net/publications/docs/ripe-771)
* [RIPE NCC Billing Procedure and Fee Schedule Document](https://www.ripe.net/participate/member-support/payment/ripe-ncc-billing-procedure-2022)
* [Due Diligence for the Quality of the RIPE NCC Registration Data](https://www.ripe.net/publications/docs/ripe-770)

**Documents for Legacy Internet Resource Holders**
* [RIPE NCC Services to Legacy Internet Resource Holders](https://www.ripe.net/publications/docs/ripe-639)
* [RIPE NCC Services for Legacy Internet Resources Agreement (Legacy Agreement)](https://www.ripe.net/publications/docs/ripe-746)
* [RIPE NCC Services for Legacy Internet Resources of RIPE NCC Members Terms and Conditions](https://www.ripe.net/publications/docs/ripe-747)
* [Terms and Conditions Required for RIPE NCC Services for Legacy Internet Resources Agreement with a Sponsoring LIR](https://www.ripe.net/publications/docs/ripe-629)
* [Legacy Internet Resources – Contractual Relationship Changes Between Sponsoring LIR and Legacy Internet Resource Holder](https://www.ripe.net/publications/docs/ripe-653)
* [Closure of Members, Deregistration of Internet Resources and Legacy Internet Resources](https://www.ripe.net/publications/docs/ripe-775)
* [Confirmation of the Legacy Holder for Requesting Changes in the RIPE Registry](https://www.ripe.net/manage-ips-and-asns/legacy-resources/confirmation-of-the-legacy-holder-for-requesting-changes-in-the-ripe-registry)
* [Confirmation of Request for Transfer of Legacy Internet Resources](https://www.ripe.net/manage-ips-and-asns/legacy-resources/confirmation-of-request-for-transfer-of-legacy-internet-resources)
* [Inter-RIR Transfer of Internet Number Resources](https://www.ripe.net/publications/docs/ripe-769)
* [Confirmation of Transfer to the RIPE NCC Service Region](https://www.ripe.net/manage-ips-and-asns/resource-transfers-and-mergers/inter-rir-transfers/inter-rir-transfer-documents/confirmation-of-transfer-to-the-ripe-ncc-service-region)
* [Confirmation of Transfer from the RIPE NCC Service Region](https://www.ripe.net/manage-ips-and-asns/resource-transfers-and-mergers/inter-rir-transfers/inter-rir-transfer-documents/confirmation-of-transfer-from-the-ripe-ncc-service-region)
* [Confirmation of Transfer to the RIPE NCC Service Region (Legacy Resources Without a Contract)](https://www.ripe.net/manage-ips-and-asns/resource-transfers-and-mergers/inter-rir-transfers/inter-rir-transfer-documents/confirmation-of-transfer-to-the-ripe-ncc-service-region-legacy-resources-without-contract)
* [Confirmation of Transfer from the RIPE NCC Service Region (Legacy Resources Without a Contract)](https://www.ripe.net/manage-ips-and-asns/resource-transfers-and-mergers/inter-rir-transfers/inter-rir-transfer-documents/confirmation-of-transfer-from-the-ripe-ncc-service-region-legacy-resources-without-contract)
* [RIPE NCC Charging Scheme](https://www.ripe.net/publications/docs/ripe-771)
* [Due Diligence for the Quality of the RIPE NCC Registration Data](https://www.ripe.net/publications/docs/ripe-770)

## Information for Law Enforcement Agencies

* [Handling Requests for Information, Orders and Investigations from Law Enforcement Agencies](https://www.ripe.net/publications/docs/ripe-675)
* [Due Diligence for the Quality of the RIPE NCC Registration Data](https://www.ripe.net/publications/docs/ripe-770)
* [RIPE NCC Audit Activity](https://www.ripe.net/publications/docs/ripe-694)
* [Transparency Report](https://www.ripe.net/publications/docs/ripe-754)

## Other RIPE NCC Services Documents
**RIPE NCC LIR Account**
* [RIPE NCC LIR Account Agreement](https://www.ripe.net/about-us/legal/ripe-ncc-lir-account-agreement)
* [Statement of Lawful Representation](https://www.ripe.net/about-us/legal/statement-of-lawful-representation)

**RIPE Atlas**
* [RIPE Atlas Service Terms and Conditions](https://www.ripe.net/about-us/legal/ripe-atlas-service-terms-and-conditions)
* [RIPE Atlas Anchor Memorandum of Understanding](https://atlas.ripe.net/legal/anchors/memorandum/)

**RIPEstat**
* [RIPEstat Service Terms and Conditions](https://www.ripe.net/about-us/legal/ripestat-service-terms-and-conditions)

**RIPE Database**
* [RIPE Database Terms and Conditions](#terms-of-service)
* [RIPE Database Acceptable Use Policy](https://www.ripe.net/manage-ips-and-asns/db/support/documentation/aup)
* [Procedure for the Removal of Personal Contact Details from the RIPE Database](https://www.ripe.net/manage-ips-and-asns/db/support/documentation/removal-of-personal-data)

**RIPE NCC Certification**
* [RIPE NCC Certification Service Terms and Conditions](https://www.ripe.net/manage-ips-and-asns/resource-management/rpki/legal/ripe-ncc-certification-service-terms-and-conditions)
* [RIPE NCC Certification Repository Terms and Conditions](https://www.ripe.net/manage-ips-and-asns/resource-management/rpki/legal/ripe-ncc-certification-repository-terms-and-conditions)

**RIPE NCC Community Projects Fund**
* [RIPE NCC Community Projects Fund Terms and Conditions](https://www.ripe.net/support/cpf/terms-and-conditions)

**RIPE NCC Listing Service**
* [RIPE NCC Listing Service Terms and Conditions](https://www.ripe.net/about-us/legal/ripe-ncc-listing-service-terms-and-conditions)

**RIPE NCC Secondary DNS Service**
* [RIPE NCC Secondary DNS Service Terms and Conditions](https://www.ripe.net/about-us/legal/ripe-ncc-secondary-dns-service-terms-and-conditions)

**RIPE NCC Website and Publicly Available RIPE NCC Services**
* [Terms of Service](https://www.ripe.net/about-us/legal/terms-of-service)

**RIPE Networking Application**
* [RIPE Networking Application Terms and Conditions](https://www.ripe.net/about-us/legal/networking-application-terms-and-conditions)

**RIPE NCC Organised Events**
* [Meeting Registration Terms and Conditions](https://www.ripe.net/about-us/legal/hybrid-meeting-registration-terms-and-conditions)
* [Virtual Meeting Registration Terms and Conditions](https://www.ripe.net/about-us/legal/virtual-meeting-registration-terms-and-conditions)
* [RIPE NCC Learning Events Terms and Conditions](https://www.ripe.net/about-us/legal/ripe-ncc-learning-events-terms-and-conditions)

**The RIPE Academic Cooperation Initiative (RACI)**
* [The RIPE Academic Cooperation Initiative Terms and Conditions](https://www.ripe.net/about-us/legal/the-ripe-academic-cooperation-initiative-terms-and-conditions)

**Monitoring Infrastructure Domains in DNSMON**
* [Terms and Conditions for Monitoring Infrastructure Domains in DNSMON](https://www.ripe.net/about-us/legal/terms-conditions-for-monitoring-infrastructure-domains-in-dnsmon)

**RIPE Data Repository**
* [RIPE Data Repository Terms and Conditions](https://www.ripe.net/about-us/legal/ripe-data-repository-terms-and-conditions)
