---
permalink: /Types-of-Queries/Access-Control-for-Queries
lastUpdated: 1743598693000
prev:
  text: Getting All the Members of Set objects
  link: /Types-of-Queries/Getting-All-the-Members-of-Set-objects/
next:
  text: RIPE NCC Global Resource Service
  link: /Types-of-Queries/RIPE-NCC-Global-Resource-Service/
---

# Access Control for Queries

The control mechanism is based on the amount of contact information (contained in **person** and **role** objects) that is returned because of any queries made. Limits are based on the IP address of a whois client sending queries to the database server. Sometimes an IP address may be acting as a proxy and submitting queries on behalf of other IP addresses (for example, a webserver providing an interface to the RIPE Database). The database server provides a facility for such proxy clients that allows accounting to be based on the IP address of the clients using the proxy to query the RIPE Database and not on the IP address of the proxy server. This is done using the `-V` flag as follows:

    -V <version>,<ipv4-address>

where
* &lt;version&gt; is a client tag that usually represent the software version that the proxy uses
* &lt;ipv4-address&gt; is the IPv4 address of the client that queries the database using the proxy

Not all users can use this `-V` flag. You must contact RIPE Database Administration and tell us why you need this facility. If we approve your request, we will add the IP address of the proxy server to an access control list. You can then use the `-V` flag, but only from your stated IP address.

Attempting to use the `-V` flag without approval may result in permanent denial of access to the RIPE Database. This denial of access will apply to the IP address that submits the query.

We restrict access to stop people using the RIPE Database to collect excessive amounts of contact data. If the 
amount of contact data returned by all your queries in a day (defined by UTC) exceeds defined limits, a temporary 
block on access is applied to that IP address. This block will be automatically released at midnight (UTC) to allow querying to continue. There is also a limit on the number of times an IP address can be blocked and recover. When this limit is reached, that IP address is permanently blocked from accessing the RIPE Database. This permanent block will not be automatically removed. The limits are defined in the [RIPE Database Acceptable Use Policy](../RIPE-Database-Acceptable-Use-Policy/#ripe-database-acceptable-use-policy)

There are many reasons why you could find yourself in this position. One is that you are mining the RIPE Database for contact data to use for non-agreed purposes. In this case, the denial of access is justified and your IP address will remain on the blocked list. However, there may be other reasons. Queries for object types other than **person** and **role** objects return contact information by default. Using the `-r` or `--no-referenced` flag to prevent contact data being included in your query results can turn of this default. Alternatively, you may have an error in a script that runs automatically, retrieving contact data that you did not know about. If you believe there was a genuine error or mistake that led to the permanent block, you need to contact RIPE Database Administration. Explain the error and tell us what steps you have taken to stop it happening again. RIPE Database Administration will decide whether to remove the block. It will remain on record that this IP address has been permanently blocked and unblocked. If another permanent block occurs, we will be less likely to consider removing it a second time.

Each time a **person** or **role** object is retrieved, a counter increases. When it reaches the limit defined in the [AUP](../RIPE-Database-Acceptable-Use-Policy/#ripe-database-acceptable-use-policy), the query execution is aborted and the connection is terminated, displaying an error message to the client (see "Access errors" in [Appendix C,RIPE Database Query Server Response Codes and Messages](../Appendices/Appendix-C--RIPE-Database-Query-Server-Response-Codes-and-Messages/#appendix-c--ripe-database-query-server-response-codes-and-messages)). Also a count of denials increases. Retrieving any other object type does not affect these counters.

Any role object used for abuse contacts with an "abuse-mailbox:" attribute is exception to this rule. No accounting is done on these objects.

There is also a limit on the number of simultaneous connections from a host. When this limit is reached, further connections from the same host are refused.

If we block your access, you will not be able to query for any object types. We will not just block your access to contact date alone.
